# Davon's React Boilerplate

This project is a boilerplate originally created with Create React App v2 (CRA), and has the following technologies:

* React v16
* MobX
* SCSS
* React Router v4
* Typescript

## Application Structure

### Craco
When using CRA, the entire startup process is abstracted from us (most notably,
Webpack), and so we use `react-scripts` to run our application. 
However, some Webpack configurations are unavoidable, e.g. webpack-django-loader,
and so we use craco (create react app configuration override) to change some
slight configurations in our webpack. You'll find this in `craco.config.js`.
Now when we run any scripts in our application, instead of running `react-scripts`,
we run `craco`.

### Typescript
Our Typescript configuration is generated by `create-react-app --typescript`,
and is pretty close to the out-of-box configuration provided by CRA. You can find
the config file at `tsconfig.json`.

### Directory Structure

Our directory structure, located under `src`, can essentially be boiled down to
a UI layer on top of a Data Store. We never manipulate or keep accessible data
in our components. Instead, our components reference a global data store that
handles all of our data for us.

#### 1. Components

Our component structure is split into two areas, **common** and **specific**.
Each component should be self-contained. Everything that has to do with that 
component should be in its own directory, have its own .tsx file, its own 
.scss file, and any other files that are necessary (e.g. typings file, 
extraneous methods, etc.).

**Common components** are project **agnostic**, and can be used across any 
project across the organization.

**Specific components** are aware of the project and would need configuration to 
move them out of the this specific project.

#### 2. Data
Each discrete piece of data should own its own directory under `data`. The
only two exceptions are the App and the Routers. The App directory contains
our **Store** which we reference to get our data. This can be split up and
each discrete piece of data can have it's own Store when the amount of data
starts adding up. The other available modules for a discrete piece of data
are:

* `Actions`: This class will hold all of the Actions that can manipulate the Store.
    If you don't know what this means, please refer to the state management
    section for more details.
* `APIHandler`: This class holds all API calls that are made against this piece of data.
    It also holds all of the routes so that this piece of data is aware of all
    of the ways it can obtain extra data.
* `Consumer`: This class should be used when you retrieve data. Whether it be a Websocket
    message or an API Response, this Consumer should ultimately be the one that
    ends up changing some piece of data in the Store.
* `Methods`: This is an extraneous file that contains any extra methods you can use
    against the Store to help a component do something with the data in the
    Store. For example, if you need to filter something specific in that piece
    of data, put it in this class and then reference ExampleMethods.filter()
    in your component.
* `Types`: This file holds all of the typings available for this piece of data.
    I always include the Request/Response args and the actual fields located on
    that piece of data.
* `Validation Schemas`: These are ways to validate your data across your application. Right now,
    we use Yup to do string validation, especially for our inputs.
    
##### Routers
The two available Routers is the Browser Router and the Socket Router.
* `Socket Router`: This router will take any Socket message and route it to the correct
    consumer method. This is only usable if you're using Web Sockets.
* `Browser Router`: This router handles our application URL routing. Since this is a
    single-page application, we need this and React Router v4. You can
    set all of your application URL routing here, and also use the 
    BrowserRouter class to push new URLs anywhere.
    
#### 3. Globals
These hold project **agnostic** miscellaneous data, including our global SCSS
config files.

## Setup

#### Installation
To get started, first install all necessary dependencies with `npm install`.
To start up the app run `npm run start`. Navigate to `localhost:3000` 
to see your running application. You'll see it navigates you to `/example`,
as that's the first route we have in React Router.




